analysis/README.rst, before:

Analysis of Select Semiconductor Industry Companies
=====================================================

Introduction
-------------

The semiconductor industry is perhaps the most important industry of the 21st century. It provides
the backbone to most of the advanced technology we almost always take for granted. Without
semiconductors, mobile phones, computers, and the internet would not be possible.

So, I wanted to try to explain the statistics of some of the most advanced companies in the world.

Analysis
----------

.. image:: ../images/Stock_prices.png

Notice how TSMC's stock price is leagues ahead of SMIC, Intel, or even Samsung. The likeliest reason for this is because
TSMC (Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation) is simply the most advanced chip maker on the planet;
companies such as Apple, Disney, or Alibaba would be nowhere without TSMC ("The pivot").

It should be noted that SMIC (Semiconductor Manufacturer International Corporation), the largest
Chinese semiconductor manufacturing company (citation missing), has the lowest stock price of the four. If that is
any indication of the state of China's semiconductor industry, despite the massive state investments poured into
semiconductors (citation needed), then China's nascent semiconductor industry is still leagues behind
its North American and Asian counterparts.

"Without prior expertise you are lost", says The Economist ("The pivot"). China would do well to remember that. Even if
another company could match TSMC's capabilities, TSMC would already be working on the next generation
of its fabs ("The pivot"), the factories it uses to create the backbone of the modern age. It is an
incredibly effective cycle. Developing the most advanced technology first allows TSMC to earn more profit by
charging higher prices, which allows it to invest in the next generation of technology, and so it
continues ("Taiwan Semiconductor").

.. image:: ../images/Plotted_statistics.png

Do not be tricked by absolute numbers. TSMC, although it has lower net revenue and spends less on R & D than Intel,
is most definitely the leader of this pack (more information needed).

Samsung Electronics' astronomical profit can be attributed to how it is not purely a semiconductor
manufacturing company; it manufactures everything from smartphones to washing machines. Even with $115bn set aside 
to be invested in its chipmaking business over the next decade ("Chip wars"), it is still barely able to keep up
with TSMC, of which Samsung Electronics is its remaining competitor ("Taiwan Semiconductor").

SMIC, as can be seen from its stock price and gross profit, is dwarfed by its superiors. For instance, where Intel has
$55.4bn in assets, SMIC only has $7.8bn ("Chip wars").

Conclusion
------------

Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company's position is unassailable; as a result, the Republic of China
(commonly referred to as Taiwan) is indirectly one of the most powerful countries on the planet.

Intel's healthy net revenue, coupled with high R & D (research and development) spending, places it at a
competitively viable position; the company for which Silicon Valley was named for will doubtless survive. Furthermore,
the Biden administration has announced a $50bn government plan to resurrect semiconductor chips
manufacturing in the United States. Although it is uncertain whether this will allow Intel to retake
the manufacturing crown, ("Taiwan Semiconductor"), it will still help Intel's prospects.

Samsung Electronics will remain a viable force in the future; the lumbering South Korean behemoth will continue
to lumber on, if by nothing else but sheer inertia.

SMIC, on the other hand, is a minnow in a sea full of ruthless leviathans who have cut their teeth
on hardship itself. It clearly has its work cut out for it, both in terms of improving its share price and
gross profit.

References
-----------

For Analysis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

"The pivot." *The Economist*, 21 Dec. 2019 - 3 Jan. 2020, 29-30.

"Chip wars: Immaculate misconceptions." *The Economist*, 23-29 May 2020, 51-52.

"Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company: Living on the edge." *The Economist*, 1-7 May 2021, 52-53.

For Plots
~~~~~~~~~~

"Financial Results."  *Intel*, https://www.intc.com/financial-info/financial-results.

"Intel Corporation (INTC)." *Yahoo! Finance*, https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/INTC/history?period1=322099200&period2=1630713600&interval=1wk&filter=history&frequency=1wk&includeAdjustedClose=true.

"Annual Reports." *Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company*, https://investor.tsmc.com/english/annual-reports.

"Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (TSM)." *Yahoo! Finance*, https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/TSM/history?period1=876355200&period2=1630713600&interval=1wk&filter=history&frequency=1wk&includeAdjustedClose=true.

"Financial Statements." *Samsung Electronics*, https://www.samsung.com/global/ir/financial-information/audited-financial-statements/.

"Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (005930.KS)." *Yahoo! Finance*, https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/005930.KS/history?period1=946857600&period2=1630713600&interval=1wk&filter=history&frequency=1wk&includeAdjustedClose=true.

"Financials." *Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation*, https://www.smics.com/en/site/company_financialSummary.

"Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (0981.HK)." *Yahoo! Finance*, https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/0981.HK/history?period1=1079481600&period2=1630713600&interval=1wk&filter=history&frequency=1wk&includeAdjustedClose=true.

TODO
Show how intel used to be really strong, but now isn't

check all sources with a fine tooth comb

upload xlsx for plots

Commit message:

Update README with sources, other additions

analysis/README.rst, after:

Analysis of Select Semiconductor Industry Companies
=====================================================

Introduction
-------------

The semiconductor industry is perhaps the most important industry of the 21st century. It provides
the backbone to most of the advanced technology we almost always take for granted. Without
semiconductors, technology such as mobile phones, computers, and the internet would not be possible.

So, I wanted to try to explain the statistics of some of the most advanced companies in the world.

Analysis
----------

.. image:: ../images/Stock_prices.png

Notice how TSMC's stock price is leagues ahead of SMIC, Intel, or even Samsung. The likeliest reason for this is because
TSMC (Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation) is simply the most advanced chip maker on the planet;
companies such as Apple, Disney, or Alibaba would be nowhere without TSMC ("The pivot").

It should be noted that SMIC (Semiconductor Manufacturer International Corporation), the largest
Chinese semiconductor manufacturing company (Beddor), has the lowest stock price of the four. If that is
any indication of the state of China's semiconductor industry, then China's nascent semiconductor
industry is still leagues behind its North American and Asian counterparts.

"Without prior expertise you are lost", says The Economist ("The pivot"). China would do well to remember that. Even if
another company could match TSMC's capabilities, TSMC would already be working on the next generation
of its fabs ("The pivot"), the factories it uses to create the backbone of the modern age. It is an
incredibly effective cycle. Developing the most advanced technology first allows TSMC to earn more profit by
charging higher prices, which allows it to invest in the next generation of technology, and so it
continues ("Taiwan Semiconductor").

.. image:: ../images/Plotted_statistics.png

Do not be tricked by absolute numbers. TSMC, although it has lower net revenue and spends less on
R & D (research and development) than Intel, is most definitely the leader of this pack, controlling
84% of the market for the most advanced chips ("Taiwan Semiconductor").

Intel's star, as of now, is not rising. Although its current financial prospects look well, its
market share for the most advanced chips (the chips with smaller transistors) places it far behind TSMC
or even Samsung ("Taiwan Semiconductor"). Where once it dominated the industry, it now lags behind.

Samsung Electronics' astronomical profit can be attributed to how it is not purely a semiconductor
manufacturing company; it manufactures everything from smartphones to washing machines. However, even with $115bn set aside 
to be invested in its chipmaking business over the next decade ("Chip wars"), it is still barely able to keep up
with TSMC, of which Samsung Electronics is its remaining competitor ("Taiwan Semiconductor").

SMIC, as can be seen from its stock price and gross profit, is dwarfed by its superiors. For instance, where Intel has
$55.4bn in assets, SMIC only has $7.8bn ("Chip wars").

Conclusion
------------

Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company's position is unassailable; as a result, the Republic of China
(commonly referred to as Taiwan) is indirectly one of the most powerful countries on the planet.

Intel's healthy net revenue, coupled with high R & D spending, places it at a competitively viable
position; the company for which Silicon Valley was named for will doubtless survive. Furthermore,
the Biden administration has announced a $50bn government plan to resurrect semiconductor chips
manufacturing in the United States. Although it is uncertain whether this will allow Intel to retake
the manufacturing crown, ("Taiwan Semiconductor"), it will still help Intel's prospects.

Samsung Electronics will remain a viable force in the future; the lumbering South Korean behemoth will continue
to stumble on, if by nothing else but sheer inertia.

SMIC, on the other hand, is a minnow in a sea full of ruthless leviathans who have cut their teeth
on hardship itself. It clearly has its work cut out for it, both in terms of improving its share price and
gross profit.

References
-----------

For Analysis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

"The pivot." *The Economist*, 21 Dec. 2019 - 3 Jan. 2020, 29-30.

"Chip wars: Immaculate misconceptions." *The Economist*, 23-29 May 2020, 51-52.

"Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company: Living on the edge." *The Economist*, 1-7 May 2021, 52-53.

For Plots
~~~~~~~~~~

"Annual Reports." *Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company*, https://investor.tsmc.com/english/annual-reports.

Beddor, Christopher. "Breakingviews - Money can’t buy China’s chip industry much love." *Reuters*, 18 Feb. 2019,
https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-semiconductors-breakingviews/breakingviews-money-cant-buy-chinas-chip-industry-much-love-idUSKCN1Q805V.

"Financials." *Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation*, https://www.smics.com/en/site/company_financialSummary.

"Financial Results."  *Intel*, https://www.intc.com/financial-info/financial-results.

"Financial Statements." *Samsung Electronics*, https://www.samsung.com/global/ir/financial-information/audited-financial-statements/.

"Intel Corporation (INTC)." *Yahoo! Finance*, https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/INTC/history?period1=322099200&period2=1630713600&interval=1wk&filter=history&frequency=1wk&includeAdjustedClose=true.

"Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (005930.KS)." *Yahoo! Finance*, https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/005930.KS/history?period1=946857600&period2=1630713600&interval=1wk&filter=history&frequency=1wk&includeAdjustedClose=true.

"Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (0981.HK)." *Yahoo! Finance*, https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/0981.HK/history?period1=1079481600&period2=1630713600&interval=1wk&filter=history&frequency=1wk&includeAdjustedClose=true.

"Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (TSM)." *Yahoo! Finance*, https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/TSM/history?period1=876355200&period2=1630713600&interval=1wk&filter=history&frequency=1wk&includeAdjustedClose=true.
